---
layout: post
title: Week 1 - Genesis
---

After sweating over whether or not I would make it through the waitlist for this class, I am proud to present this blog for CS373 SWE!

## Course Expectations

After surveying many of my peers, the general consensus was that CS373 was a great course to take. This was justified by the popular answer: "It is one of the most practical courses you will take". This piqued my interest because, while I enjoy generally theory, it is nice to learn skills that are immediately applicable and marketable.

I expect the most difficult part of this course will be the projects. If our group starts them early enough, I expect the projects to be manageable.

## Past Week

This week served as an introduction to the course. I found the material on the introduction to python to be a bit boring but I can see how it could be invaluable to someone just learning the language.

I very much enjoyed the introduction to Docker. There is nothing worse that working with a large group of people all on different environments. The "It works on my machine" Syndrome will be the death of me.

## Blockers

There was not much presented this week that manifested any blockers. The only things that have stopped me from working ahead are other classes and my extreme laziness.

## Next Week

This upcoming week I plan to finish the first project and start forming a group for the later projects. I haven't reviewed the project requirements but I am assuming it will require a GitHub Education account and possibly a Docker account.

## Experience

I generally like how the class is structured so far. I sometimes have a hard time getting to my first class of the day on time, so I will definitely try to fix that to be there for the quizzes.

I am excited to use some of the technologies discussed on the class website. I have always wanted to make a non-trivial project using React but have never had the time to dedicate to that. While I love Flask and have worked on many projects personally professionally using it, I am considering possibly using a different technology to broaden my skill-set. However, it may be more beneficial to use a framework like Flask if working in groups.

If possible, I would really like to make use of Docker during my time in this class. Docker and similar technologies are becoming so universal in the industry. This would be an ultra valuable skill to strengthen.

## pick-of-the-week

Here, I will clear up some misconceptions about the [Shebang](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shebang_(Unix)) (`#!`).

When you try to execute a text file in your shell (via `./run.txt`), your shell will look for the presence of `#!` on the first line. It will then feed the text to the executable specified by the absolute path after the `#!`. Notice, both the `#` and `!` characters are required for this to work. The choice of using the `#` was convenient because it represented a comment in many scripting languages.

However, many languages do not support the `#` character as a comment. Javascript is one such language. Node.js specifically compensates for this by allowing the `#!` on the first line and ignoring it.

-------------------------

~_Davis Robertson_


