---
layout: post
title: Week 6 - Starting Again
---

## Past Week

This past week, our group got started on IDB milestone 2. This has mostly consisted of
brainstorming and planning for what we need to do. So far, we have implemented the strategy
of creating general issues for the main requirements and then creating "sub-issues" for each
general issue. This makes it easier to delegate work and have reachable goals for each task.

## Blockers

We still are finalizing the exact attributes we need our models to have. This is very
depended on what API calls we choose to make and how we need to scrape. However, before
we even begin scraping, we need to set up our database.

We also can't design many of our React components without the API. We can probably work
parallel on the frontend and API if we initially have the API just return dummy value
and incrementally update the API with the real data.

It is interesting thinking of the requirements of the project as somewhat of a Directed
Acyclic Graph. It seems we need to do a topological sort of these requirements to find out
which order we should complete them in.

## Next Week

This upcoming week we plan to have already completed planning and get started on actual programming.
I will probably be working on the scraper as well as the backend. We are going to think
about how much data to scrape, over what time span to scrape data, and how to deal with 
rate-limiting on some APIs.

In terms of my classes, this is going to be an ultra-stressful week. I have a test in both
SWE and Algorithms on the same day. In graphics, we also have a wave-simulation project due
on that Thursday as well. I am trying to get everything done as early as possible this week.
Hopefully I will make it through the week.

## Experience

I think the group assignments are much more valuable than the in-class exercises, in my opinion.
It has been extremely interesting thinking about how the implement the scraper and structure the
database. Our group is working with geographic data, so we have had to come up with some clever
solutions to dealing with finding nearby instances (all within a relational database).

## pick-of-the-week

This is more a fact-of-the-week than anything and not even really related to CS. I learned about
it this past week in my number theory class, but it is interesting nonetheless:

Consider the equation `c_n * x^n + c_(n-1) * x^(n-1) + ... + c_2 * x^2 + c_1 * x + c_0 = 0`,
where `c_i` is any integer coefficient. The interesting fact is that any solution of `x` to 
this equation is always guaranteed to be _either_ an integer or irrational. `x` can never be
a non-integer rational number.

This is interesting because you can then easily prove `sqrt(2)` is irrational. Consider the
equation `x^2 - 2 = 0`. If we plug in `x = sqrt(2)`, we get `(sqrt(2))^2 - 2 = 2 - 2 = 0`.
Therefore, `sqrt(2)` is either an integer or irrational. However `1 < sqrt(2) < 2`, and 
therefore `sqrt(2)` is not an integer. Therefore, `sqrt(2)` is irrational.

-------------------------

~_Davis Robertson_


