---
layout: post
title: Week 3 - Slow Down, Please
---


## Past Week

As far as this class goes, my past week has been pretty relaxed. I started off
the week with putting finishing touches on my Collatz project and then 
submitting it. Overall, the project was pretty simple (but I guess that 
the point of the project). My largest time sinks were setting up Travis CI
and managing the issues on GitHub. This caused my actual time to completion to be
higher than I first estimated.

Outside of this class, mostly all my time has been working on Graphics (CS378H).
This week we have been working on creating a [ray tracer](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ray_tracing_(graphics)).
So far, it has been one of the most difficult but technically interesting projects
I have ever worked on. 

## Blockers

Nothing is really blocking me right now. I am waiting to group up and start the
next project in the coming week.

## Next Week

This upcoming week, I plan to group up with people and start the next project.
I want to meet with my group as early as possible in order to deal out responsibility.
We will need to decide what data set we will be scraping from.
A lot of times I procrastinate, but I wish to knock out this project as early as possible.
For the project, I am really open to working on anything. I have a lot of experience with
the tech stack Professor Downing discussed in class. Personally, I feel like React may be
a little overkill but I am very open to working on this project with it.

My next weekend is already booked up, so I am going to have to put in a lot of
effort to finish the ray tracer. I will definitely be pairing up for the next project in that class.

## Experience

My experience has not changed at all since last week. As noted in the last week section,
I greatly underestimated the amount of time it took to complete the Collatz project.
However, this class has not been a huge time sink yet, which I hope stays that way.

## pick-of-the-week

This may be a little late for tips relating to blogs, but here is a pick
relating to blogs (also some self-promotion). This Summer, I will be interning at [Quora](https://www.quora.com/).
As the Summer approaches, I have been making an effort to try and get more
accustomed to the product. I recently found out that you can create your own 
[blog on Quora](https://blog.quora.com/Introducing-Blogs-on-Quora).
If I hadn't already created my blog, I might have used this instead.
It is interesting to find relatively-unknown features in popular web applications.

-------------------------

~_Davis Robertson_

