---
layout: post
title: Week 10 - April Fools
---

## Past Week

This past week we made good progress on completing the next IDB milestone. 
So far we have implemented basic pagination for the models, full text search, 
and refined many elements.

I also made various cosmetic improvements.
Previously, the user ratings for our models were shown as floating point numbers.
I have now created a component that displays star icons for a given rating.
It is pretty enjoyable creating small modular components that tie everything together.

## Blockers

Nothing is blocking us right now. We just need to implement the rest of our features and testing.

## Next Week

Next week, we need to finish up the project (obviously).

Left to do is:
 - Updating the report
 - Creating API endpoints and bindings for filters and orderings
 - Scrape more data
 - Tiny refinements

## Experience

I am enjoying these SQL HackerRank exercises. However, many of the specifications for the queries we
need to do are sometimes quite vague. I am hoping they will not be as ambiguous for the test.

## pick-of-the-week

[Here](https://medium.com/@gordonnl/wind-waker-graphics-analysis-a0b575a31127) is a really interesting
technical analysis on the graphics of _The Legend of Zelda: The Wind Waker_ (Nintendo GameCube game
released ~16 years ago). It also includes demos for many of the effects that can run in your browser (using WebGL)!

If you are interested in graphics, you may find it very fascinating! It is crazy to see how well the
aesthetics on that game hold up today from a game released over 1.5 decades ago. This is due to the 
many hacks and optimizations the developers used.

-------------------------

~_Davis Robertson_

