---
layout: post
title: Week 9 - Through The Fire and Flames
---

## Past Week

This past week we finished our project! It was a bit stressful managing finishing the
project along with completing class work for other classes that had accumulated over
the break.

I am pretty proud of our project but I would still probably want to make more changes
if given more time.

## Blockers

There is nothing blocking us yet (in regards to the next phase).

## Next Week

This next week, we will be starting on the next project. If I am recalling correctly,
this will be implementing a searching feature.

I do not expect this to be nearly as difficult as the previous phase. We already have
most of the groundwork laid out for us already. Our workflow is already established with
the tools we are using. I think it will really be as easy as creating a few more
React components and hooking up another API route. We already handled pagination in our
API before, so I do not think it will be an issue.

## Experience

I'm glad we are moving on to different material in the lectures. Even though we haven't
covered anything too challenging, its nice to be exposed to new subjects.

## tip-of-the-week

My tip of the week is brought to you at the expense of 2 hours of frustrating debugging time
I wasted this past week.

TLDR; `threaded=True`

So apparently, when you load a page in Chrome, it opens up connections to any page you might
make a future response to. This helps speed up Chrome by already having connections open if
you do in fact want to open the respective page. Chrome keeps this connection alive for until
you navigate away or a timeout expires. In comes Flask. Flask's development server is by
default single threaded. This means it will only process one request at a time and waits
to process subsequent requests. When Chrome connects to your Flask site, it subsequently opens
the "speculative" connections. This is usually fine, as you can just navigate to another page
and the connection is killed. However, if you have asynchronous data calls to the Flask API
(running on the same Flask instance), that API call will be caught in `Status: Pending...`
land for 30 seconds or until that speculative connection request is killed by Chrome and
the API call can then be processed.

This issue was very hard to debug as Flask does not even log that there is a pending request
incoming, so it can seem like this issue is manifesting out of nowhere.

A remedy for this is the let the Flask development server be multithreaded. This allows both 
the speculative connection and the API requests be processed concurrently. A very easy fix is
simply adding:

```python
# starting Flask app
app.run(threaded=True)
```

It is frustrating that 2 hours of tortuous debugging could be solved with less than 15 characters.
It makes you wonder why the Flask team does not advertise this shortcoming very noticeably. Personally,
I feel the Flask development server should be multithreaded by default!

[Here](https://hackernoon.com/chrome-preconnect-breaks-singly-threaded-servers-95944be16400) 
is a nice writeup somebody made about the issue.

-------------------------

~_Davis Robertson_

