---
layout: post
title: Week 11 - Noise
---

## Past Week

This past week we finished up milestone 3 of IDB. For the most part, it wasn't too
bad adding these searching features, since our infrastructure was already set up
to support these features with minimal change.

The timing of when milestone 2 was graded was pretty annoying. We assumed the graders 
had already graded our website the day before IDB 3 was due and changed our produciton 
database. This broke tests that depended on data from the old database. We also did not
have that much time to implement any feedback from the last project. Also, we ended 
up losing points for not having enough discussions on from Milestone **1**
(basically double penalized because we already lost points on this from Milestone 1).
I did not know we were supposed to go back and make up discussions.

In my graphics class last week, we finished up our character rigging and animation 
system. It is very rewarding to complete one of these projects from scratch.
Below is an example animation we made using our tool (all the test data we were 
given were Japanese dance characters):

<div style='position:relative;padding-bottom:75%'><iframe src='https://gfycat.com/ifr/FittingUnhappyHamadryas' frameborder='0' scrolling='no' width='100%' height='100%' style='position:absolute;top:0;left:0;' allowfullscreen></iframe></div>

## Blockers

Nothing is blocking us right now. We just need to get started on the next milestone.

## Next Week

In relation to SWE, we have to start on the next milestone. Looking at the project spec 
page it looks to be mostly all refinement along with a presentation and more customer review. 
There are definitely areas in our code that can be refactored and improved upon. I feel like
a lot of refactoring will be needed on our front-end side, due to the fact that conditional 
rendering inherently leads to messy code unless you are very careful.

## Experience

Like I mentioned in my previous blog post, I like that we are covering more SQL subjects.
I am not as familiar with SQL as I am with Python, so it is nice to become more comfortable
in my understanding of the language.

## pick-of-the-week

My pick-of-the-week for this week covers something that you probably take for granted every time 
you browse on your device: the scrollbar. [Here](http://csdgn.org/article/scrollbar) is a very
well written technical write up on the math and programming behind a scrollbar. There are many
intricacies and edge cases that most people would overlook if they tried to program one of these 
from scratch. Overall, I think this article is article sets a good bar for the quality to aim 
to achieve when writing technical reports.


-------------------------

~_Davis Robertson_

