---
layout: post
title: Week 4 - Bring it on
---


## Past Week

This past week I have met up with my group and made significant progress
on milestone 1 of the project. So far we have set up a basic Flask server
that is using Jinja templates to serve the pages. I have worked on many
Flask projects so I believe I have set up a good base starting skeleton
for our server. Much of what I have written so far has been boiler-plate
like.

I found it interesting that we were required to set up the dynamic pulling
of GitHub stats at this phase of the project. Most people have not set up
a dynamic server yet.

## Blockers

I don't have any blockers on the project yet. My biggest "blocker" at the
moment is simply making the time to work on the project and meeting with
my group.

Some of the instructions on the project are still a bit unclear to me,
however. Specifically where it says we have to design our API with Postman?
I may not know all of its features, but I thought Postman was simply for
testing API requests.

## Next Week

We need to finish up all the requirements for milestone 1. The main things
remaining are probably just the GitBook write-ups and fleshing out the 
mock model pages.

We also need to get our server running on the Amazon EC2 instance. It seems
fairly simple and we already have a machine spinning. We simply need to pull
the code and run the Flask server.

## Experience

To be honest, I don't really like how the in-class lectures are going so far.
I enjoyed some of the lectures at the beginning of the year that focused on
some tools that are used in the industry, such as Docker and such. However,
in the past few weeks it seems like we have just been doing a Python tutorial.
It is nice to learn the languages that we are using for the projects but it
seems like it would be a better use of time for people to learn it outside of
class.

## pick-of-the-week

[Here](http://flask.pocoo.org/docs/0.12/patterns/packages/) is the project page
on structuring a Flask application. I think it is a very useful read for people
who are just now learning how to use Flask. One particularly interesting thing
is the project's view on circular imports in Python. Circular imports are mostly
viewed as a negative thing, a hack. In many cases, it is bad style to import a
module that then imports the original module. Flask encourages circular imports
for projects, viewed mostly as a work-around but a necessity. It helps split
files up as many of the inner workings depend on a shared Flask app object.

-------------------------

~_Davis Robertson_

