---
layout: post
title: Week 5 - The 5th Week
---


## Past Week

This past week, my group and I finished up our IDB project #1. It took a lot longer than I expected,
probably because we spent a lot of time up front on the technical aspects of the website and then
realized that the bulk of the proints available in the project were completing the GitBook reports
and documentation.

On the subject of GitBooks, I have found a number of bugs and points of criticism while using their 
application for just a short while. Here is a list of some of them:

 - When typing in between `<` and `>`, keystrokes are duplicated, so you get text like `<tteesstt>`.
 - I have been unable to unsubscribe or to change my subscription settings for any project. The unsubscribe
   button gets updated but then becomes unresponsive and no changes are saved.
 - The editor does not notify you that your document has errors in it that don't let it get published.
   If you do not have email alerts on, you have no way of knowing your document is not publishing
   other than manually checking under the 'Updates' section and then clicking on the red 'X' and reading
   the build log to see what is wrong.
 - The list goes on.

It is slightly disappointing that this project has these obvious reproduceable bugs that can be found very
in very little time.

Unrelated to this class, I am pretty proud of myself for finishing up a project for my CS378H Graphics
class almost a week before it was due. This is despite my unwaivering ability to procrastinate.

## Blockers

Nothing right now. We will be starting the next milestone this upcoming week.

## Next Week

As I said in the blockers, this week we will be planning on what steps we have to take to finish
IDB #2. We have a lot of time to finish this milestone, but having a lot of time in dangerous in my opinion.
It gives you a false sense of security that you have enough time to finish the project and in a lot of cases
you end up doing it near then end and possibly running out of time.

## Experience

My experience in the class is pretty much the same as it has been. I am hoping the exam will be just testing
us over what we learned during lectures. The HackerRank exercises have been pretty straight-forward so far.

## pick-of-the-week

This pick-of-the-week, I have picked an almost anti-pick-of-the-week. In my Graphics class, I have had the
_pleasure_ of working with the OpenGL Mathematics (GLM) library. It is a wonderful library and is invaluable
if you are working in graphics or doing vector math. However, [their documentation](https://glm.g-truc.net/0.9.4/api/index.html)
leaves something to be desired (it is better than nothing; however, much of the behavior is undefined). 
I know it is difficult to maintain good documentation with a huge library like this, but it definitely
makes you appreciate projects with great documentation and provides motivation to keep good documentation
of the projects you work on.

-------------------------

~_Davis Robertson_

