---
layout: post
title: Week 12 - Beginning of the End?
---

## Past Week

This past week we started working on the current IDB. We have implemnted or addressed most 
user stories brought up by our customer.

It is nice getting suggestions from an oustide party on what to change. Sometimes you are 
working so close to your project that you cannot see how to improve it.

## Blockers

Nothing is really blocking us right now. We still need to make our Makefile, but we are waiting
for the Makefile presentation on Monday.

## Next Week

It doesn't seem like we need to do much more to finish this milestone. A large portion of the points 
making up this milestone are relating to the GitPitch presentation. We have more or less already 
finished the presentation. However, we still need to update it with the feedback we will give as 
customers on Wednesday.

We also still need to make our visualization for the project. This part is very vague in the spec. 
D3 looks fairly straightforward to use. However, it is very unclear on how to make a useful 
visualization with the different types of data.

## Experience

I'm interested to see what will be on the next test. I am wondering if it will cover any of the 
refactoring we are doing in class. If that is the case, it will be interesting to see how they 
grade those (an automated process would seem dificult).

Also, I don't agree with some of the refactorings. Especially ones about eliminating local variables 
by adding more function calls. Even if the functions don't have any side effects, I think it is a 
bad habit to get into.

## pick-of-the-week

My pick of the week this week are [sourcemaps](https://developers.google.com/web/tools/chrome-devtools/javascript/source-maps).
These are a way of linking compiled code (generated JavaScript) to their original source code (such as JSX files).
This is especially useful for debugging. You can set breakpoints in your JSX files and step through that code 
(via your developer tools in Chome/Firefox).

You are probably generating these already, even if you aren't aware of it, via Webpack.


-------------------------

~_Davis Robertson_

