---
layout: post
title: Week 2 - Heating Up
---


## Past Week

Much against my usual tendency to procrastinate until the very last minute, 
I actually knocked out a big chunk out of the Collatz project. Like a lot of projects, 
the hardest part is usually just starting. So far, I have set up the project and pipeline 
as well as fixed the given tests.

Creating the issues on GitHub took longer than I thought, but I found it to be very useful.
It is so much easiert to have everything planned out in small increments. It makes completing
these projects seem a lot more manageable and less stressfull. It almost becomes trivial 
doing these small steps on the to-do list that adds up to a sizeable amount of work.

Setting up Travis CI proved to more difficult than I expected. While it was relatively easy
to set up with my personal fork repo, Travis did not seem to automatically pick up the
private classroom repo. I ended up having to manually add the Travis service to that repo
on GitHub and then generate a deploy key for both Travis and GitHub.

## Blockers

Not much has been stopping me from finishing the project besides managing free time.
I usually tackle my schoolwork by working on the one with the earliest due date.
When new homework is assigned, I usually finish the homework before working on the
projects that are due further in the future.

## Next Week

In the upcoming week I plan to finish my project (obviously). The basic implementation and 
optimizations seem pretty trivial for the most part. I have a feeling that the optimizations
discussed in class will be enough to pass the HackerRank requirements. My thoughts are that
a memoization cache will be enough alone to pass, as they would have the largest effect on
runtime. However, I will also implement the other optimizations.

## Experience

My experience in this call is pretty much as expected at this point. I'm sure as the semester
progresses, the class will definitely pick up more in material and project difficulty. Some of
the quiz questions I find to be a little weird. In my opinion, some of the questions just don't
seem like they are testing useful information. I can definitely see the argument that the quizes
function more as a attendance counter as well as testing if we are keeping up with the reading
material.

## pick-of-the-week

After considering whipping up an "electronic" [Catan](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Catan),
I rediscovered [this article and demonstration of representing hexagonal grids](https://www.redblobgames.com/grids/hexagons/).
It is a really great resource for anyone working on any project using this type of grid
system but is also a great read for general knowledge. The demos he has made are very
fun to play around with. The author clearly explored every facet of this subject.

-------------------------

~_Davis Robertson_

